---
title: "Of Faisal Tehrani, the Hardy Boys and the Dancing Men"
date: 2020-04-24T13:52:21+08:00
draft: false


---

A good friend of mine, Dr Syameem Raub wrote a [post](https://drsyameem.com/the-first-book-that-got-me-hooked-on-reading/) about books that got him hooked on reading. In his post, he mentioned that when we were together in a boarding school, I lend him my The Da Vinci Code written by Dan Brown. He described how he got into reading after being impressed with the book's storyline, structure, plot and the elements of surprises presented by the author. Indeed The Da Vinci Code is a well-written book. I enjoyed reading it too. You can never guess how is the ending going to be. Dr Syameem remarked how I seem unimpressed with the book. Well, I like the book, but at that time, I already immersed myself with novels and short stories written by Faisal Tehrani. 

The first book, written by him that I read is 1515. It is a fiction book. I remember a bit about the plot. There are two point of view if i am not mistaken. The first POV tells a story of how Malacca is lead by a woman named Tun Nyemah Mulya during the invasion of Portugal. Faisal wrote on the Kingdom of Malacca, their glory and struggles during that time. Another POV is the modern-day woman named Mulya, and I cannot forget the details if she is the descendant of Tun Nyemah Mulya or not. But I do remember how I enjoyed reading this novel. The way Faisal presented different POV from a different time and still able to tell a good story. It is a fiction, but after finished reading it, I am wondering if it is a true story, hidden to us? 

I can say for sure that reading is not one of my hobbies. But I do enjoy reading. When I was a kid, I read a lot of Ladybird's Key Words with Peter and Jane. My mum asked my siblings and me to read it. Children can get to improve their English, recognise the alphabet, increase their vocabulary and in the same time enjoy a good story. Then I start to read on a few teenagers novel and stories such as Nancy Drew and The Hardy Boys. It was quite popular during the days, and there is also Malay translated version. I think I read both versions. Then Harry Potter came. Everyone starts to read it. I read the whole volume but stopped at the Goblet of Fire. Then I lose interest in the storyline. I don't know, maybe it just me. 

When I started my higher upper secondary school, I get to know Faisal Tehrani. I remember I bought almost every book written by him. Like I mentioned, I liked 1515, and other titles that I enjoyed are Detektif Indigo series, 1415H, and Bedar Sukma Bisu. Then I started to learn guitar. I play a lot and also jamming with some of my friends. Reading seems to lose its ability to interest me anymore. I only read articles on the web, newspaper or some magazine about music. 

During my foundation year at the University of Malaya, I still listen and play music, and play football and rugby. But I get to know Sherlock Holmes from watching the Sherlock Holmes movie released in 2009. I remember how Dr Syameem and I always talked about the film. We discussed a lot of the plot and spoke about how we will change the ending, for example, if we can make Irene Adler role bigger in the movie or the Secret Intelligence Service is the mastermind. We even make a list of quotes from the film. Then I bought a complete collection of novels and short stories of Sherlock Holmes. I can clearly remember my favourite short story: The Adventure of the Dancing Men. I felt like I have fallen in love again with reading. Then I borrowed the Lord of the Rings from my friend.

But as years passed by, the reading seems to lose its way again. With other commitments, I could not commit to reading as frequent as I like. But seeing Dr Syameem, now I want to start reading. We talked about an idea of a fiction novel, and I know I need to start reading again before I can commit to this project. I do not know if I would be addicted to buying books like Dr Syameem, but slowly I will pick up this good habit again.